# Notes from AWS security group last night

There are some concepts I learned from it. I will list it here as a note.

## ASD TOP4 rules


1. Targeted cyber intrusions remain the biggest threat to government ICT systems. Since opening in early 2010,
the Cyber Security Operations Centre (CSOC) has detected and responded to thousands of these intrusions.  
2. You should never assume that your information is of little or no value. Adversaries are not just looking for
classified information. A lot of activity observed by the CSOC has an economic focus, looking for information
about Australia’s business dealings, its intellectual property, its scientific data and the government’s intentions.
3. The threat is real, but there are things every organisation can do to significantly reduce the risk of a cyber
intrusion. In 2009, based on our analysis of these intrusions, the Australian Signals Directorate produced
Strategies to Mitigate Targeted Cyber Intrusions – a document that lists a variety of ways to protect an
organisation’s ICT systems. At least 85% of the intrusions that ASD responded to in 2011 involved adversaries
using unsophisticated techniques that would have been mitigated by implementing the top four mitigation
strategies as a package.  
4. The top four mitigations are: application whitelisting; patching applications and operating systems and
using the latest version; and minimising administrative privileges. This document is designed to help senior
managers in organisations understand the effectiveness of implementing these strategies.


Now I begin to worry about our system...haha let's backup the data now!


## IDS/IPS

IDS (Intrusion Detection Systems)/ IPS ( Intrusion Prevention System)

The concept of IDS is trying to detect all possible trace of attack while IPS means deny the attack request(one example: as a firewall )


## Security Trigger

One thing they mentioned last night is the trigger of getting attack. Usually, we know which processes will be executed on the server.
If the server has some other processes been setup, then we need to trigger the system to execute protecting operations.

## [CIS](https://www.cisecurity.org/)

It contains many best practices for security

